IMPORTANT INFORMATION

This is the very first attempt at this. DO THIS AT YOUR OWN RISK. ALWAYS WORK ON A BACKUP COPY OF YOUR CONFIG FILE AS IT WILL BE MODIFIED IN-PLACE.

Welcome to AIRConfig for GlobalTalk. This is an application that takes a list of Host IDs in a text file, and puts it into a Apple Internet Router config file, so you don't have to keep merging the new entries manually (and miss any changes when someones IP changes)

This is an early experimental version and it is likely to break things.

How to use it:

1. Prepare a list of Host IDs. One is provided here, I'll try to update it daily. 

If you want to prepare it yourself: on a modern computer, open the sheet, go to the "Just the facts" tab, and select all the IPs. Copy and paste them into a text file. Remove any junk that will not work in AIR (that guy at the end with a port on his IP, and the one that has a slash and stuff in it). The IPs can be delimited by newlines (CR, LR, CRLF all fine), commas, semicolons or tabs. Transfer this file to your router machine.

2. Make a copy of your Apple Internet Router config file.
3. Open AIRConfig
4. Click "Select File" next to Host IDs, select the text file with the Host IDs, click OK. It will show you how many IDs were found.
5. Click "Select File" next to Router Config, select the copy of the config file, click OK. AIRConfig will modify this file in place so use a copy. It will show you which port it found an IP tunnel on.
6. Press "Convert". You should get a success dialog.
8. You can now quit AIRConfig.
9. Open the copy of the config file in Router Manager to make sure it is not corrupted.
10. Now use Router Manager to switch config files to the new, modified one. (stop the router and Set Startup to the new config file.)


Please report any successes and failures to @kalleboo@bitbang.social !!!



Future plans if this works out:
¥ A UI to config the files to modify and then a "headless" mode where it can be run automated
¥ Some way to automate fetching the list of Host IDs (even if this is just AppleScripting Fetch or something)




